- **Input/output devices** - A **screen** (or monitor) displays items to a user. The above examples displayed textual items, but today's computers display graphical items, too. A **keyboard** allows a user to provide input to the computer, typically accompanied by a _mouse_ for graphical displays. Keyboards and mice are increasingly being replaced by _touchscreens_. Other devices provide additional input and output means, such as microphones, speakers, printers, and USB interfaces. I/O devices are commonly called _peripherals_.
- **Storage** - A **solid-state drive (SSD)** uses flash memory to store files and other data, such as program files, song/movie files, or office documents. SSDs are _non-volatile_, meaning they maintain their contents even when powered off. The SSD's flash memory stores 0s and 1s by tunneling electrons into special circuits on the memory's chip and extracting the bits with a "flash" of electricity that draws the electrons back out. SSDs replace _hard disk drives_ used in older personal computers. Hard disk drives use spinning magnetic disks that are slower and consume more energy than SSDs.
- **Memory** - **RAM** (random-access memory) temporarily holds data read from storage and is designed such that any address can be accessed much faster than SSD and disk. The "random access" term comes from being able to access any memory location quickly and in arbitrary order, without having to spin a disk to get a proper location under a head. RAM is costlier per bit than SSD and disk, due to RAM's higher speed. RAM chips typically appear on a printed-circuit board along with a processor chip. RAM is volatile, losing its contents when powered off. Memory size is typically listed in bits or in bytes, where a **byte** is 8 bits. Common sizes involve megabytes (million bytes), gigabytes (billion bytes), or terabytes (trillion bytes).
- **Processor** - The **processor** runs the computer's programs, reading and executing instructions from memory, performing operations, and reading/writing data from/to memory. When powered on, the processor starts executing the program whose first instruction is (typically) at memory location 0. That program is commonly called the _BIOS (basic input/output system)_, which sets up the computer's basic peripherals. The processor then begins executing a program called an _operating system (OS)_. The **operating system** allows a user to run other programs and interfaces with the many other peripherals. Processors are also called _CPUs_ (central processing units) or _microprocessors_ (a term introduced when processors began fitting on a single chip, the "micro-" suggesting something small). Because speed is so important, a processor may contain a small amount of RAM on its own chip, called **cache** memory, accessible in one clock tick rather than several, for maintaining a copy of the most-used instructions/data.
- **Clock** - A processor's instructions execute at a rate governed by the processor's **clock**, which ticks at a specific frequency. Processors have clocks that tick at rates such as 1 MHz (1 million ticks/second) for an inexpensive processor ($1) like those found in a microwave oven or washing machine, to 1 GHz (1 billion ticks/second) for costlier ($10-$100) processors like those found in mobile phones and desktop computers. Executing about 1 instruction per clock tick, processors thus execute millions or billions of instructions per second.

- After computers were invented and occupied entire rooms, engineers created smaller switches called **transistors**, which in 1958 were integrated onto a single chip called an **integrated circuit**, or IC. Engineers continued to make transistors smaller, leading to **Moore's Law**, the doubling of IC capacity roughly every 18 months, which continued for several decades.