**Incremental Development and Function Stubs**
- Programs are written using **incremental development**, meaning a small amount of code is written and tested, then a small amount more (an incremental amount) is written and tested. and so on
- To assist with the incremental development process, programmers commonly introduce **function stubs**, which are function definitions whose statements haven't been written yet. The benefit of a function stub is that the high-level behavior first may lead to better-organized code, reduced development time, and code with fewer bugs
- A programmer writing a function stub should consider whether or not calling the unwritten function is a valid operation. Simply doing nothing and returning nothing may be acceptable early in the development of a larger program. One approach is to use the **pass** keyword, which performs no operation except to act as a placeholder for a required statement
```
def steps_to_feet(num_steps):
    feet_per_step = 3
    feet = num_steps * feet_per_step
    return feet

def steps_to_calories(num_steps):
    pass  

steps = int(input("Enter number of steps walked: "))

feet = steps_to_feet(steps)
print(f"Feet: {feet}")

calories = steps_to_calories(steps)
print(f"Calories: {calories}")
```
- The program above has a function stub in place of the steps_to_calories() function. The function contains a single pass statement because at least one statement is required in any user-defined function.
- Another useful approach is to print a message when a function stub is called, thus alerting the user to the missing function statements. Good practice is for a stub to return -1 for a function that will have a return value. The following function stub could be used to replace the steps_to_calories() stub in the program above:
```
def steps_to_calories(steps):
	print("FIXME: finish steps_to_calories")
    return -1
```
- In some cases, a programmer may want a program to stop executing if an unfinished function is called. Ex: A program that requires user input should not execute if the user-defined function that gets input is not completed. In such cases, a **NotImplementedError** can be generated with the statement `raise NotImplementedError`. The NotImplementedError indicates that the function is not implemented and causes the program to stop execution. NotImplementedError and the "raise" keyword are explored elsewhere in material focusing on _exceptions_. The following demonstrates an error being generated by a function stub:
```
import math

def get_points(num_points):
    """Get num_points from the user. Return a list of (x,y) tuples."""
    raise NotImplementedError
        
def side_length(p1, p2):
    return math.sqrt((p2[0] - p1[0])**2 + (p2[1] - p1[1])**2)

def get_perimeter_length(points):
    perimeter = side_length(points[0], points[1])
    perimeter += side_length(points[0], points[2])
    perimeter += side_length(points[1], points[2])
    return perimeter

coordinates = get_points(3)
print(f"Perimeter of triangle: {get_perimeter_length(coordinates)}")
```
